Hello and welcome this lecture we're going to be playing with AIM offsets will allow our Meche to move
its arms up and down as we aim up and down.
Let's dive in and see what that's all about.
So at the moment, if we aim up and down, you can see that our characters arms aren't actually doing
anything and the gun is not really looking like it should be pointing up and firing and hitting the
location that we're actually hitting.
So how do we go about changing this?
Well, it's a change to our animation blueprint.
So let's go ahead and open up the animation blueprint as a starting point and dock it to our main window.
And then I want to introduce you to a new type of animation asset that we haven't seen before.
We've seen BLENDE spaces.
We've seen animations.
The next thing that I want to show you is something called an animation offset and particularly an aim
offset.
So if we look for the keyword aiyo, in our animations, we're looking for these ones with a little
blue underline called AIM Offsets.
There's a couple of them.
The one I'm interested in is AOE combat, which should be around here somewhere.
They'll go a idle AoE combat, go an extra like that.
Then you'll see that we've got something looking a lot like our Blende space.
Except this time, if you move the little green nubbin, what's going on is it's changed in the direction
that our characters mesh is pointing.
So if we come over to the left, he points his gun to the left.
We come over to the right.
He points his gun to the right.
And similarly with up and down, if you go pick up, then he looks all the way up, you pitch down,
he looks all the way down and tries to shoot down.
Now, the difference with this and other animations that we've seen is that this is known as an additive
animation.
If you go to the details pay and you can see that it's additive because it says additive settings.
And this is animation based pose that it's basing all of this off.
Basically what it means when it's additive is that this animation can be added on top of your other
animation.
So it's saying I can do this aiming while you're running.
I can add the information about where my arms have moved relative to your run pose and add them on top.
So how does this look?
If we go to our animation blueprint, what we want to do is add this information after we've added all
this information about locomotion and probably not before death, because death should be the final
thing, huh?
So we want to after locomotion.
So we've got all our running animation in that.
We want to add on top of that the little bit of information about where our arms should be moved so
that we're aiming correctly.
So to do this, we can right click and add in our aim offset.
We can do it from the asset browser as well as we look for a.
And then, as I said, we're looking for that combat version, which is a different place in this browser,
funnily enough.
If I drag that in, then what you get is something with an input pin which says, what's the base poet
noticed the locomotion blends based didn't have an input pen because it's supplying you the whole animation,
whereas this aim offset because it's an additive animation.
It requires something to add on top of.
So you need to give it a base pose, which is going gains come from our locomotion.
And then we're going to go in input that's in to our false pose of the BLENDE, whether we are dead
or not, because we're only showing this.
We're not dead.
And then I want to show you that if I were to change the pitch to one or maybe two 180 actually, and
go ahead and compile, then you can see that he's fully looking upwards.
Now, another tweak I want to do here is in the event graph.
At the moment, we've got a rather vexing situation where we can't tweak anything in the anim preview
because it's being overwritten with zeros by our event graph.
An easy way to fix this is to simply put a check in here for whether the porn owner that we've got here
is valid, namely, is it null.
So who put in is valid here?
And the one with the question mark automatically gives us these execution nodes.
And if we pass through an update animation execution node and only set things, if that's valid, then
what's going to happen is that when you are not actually playing and there isn't a pawn there to give
us, the information is going to allow us to set it in the anim preview added to.
So now I can change the speed and you can see that he starts running with his aim offset set up high.
So let's set this so that our pitch is actually a variable here.
So I'm going to right.
Click on pitch and promotes a variable and bring that variable down here with visible and change its
name to pitch.
In fact, let's be more specific.
This is the aim.
Pitch like.
So.
Now, if we go ahead and compile, we set a default aim pitch by accident.
We want to set that down to zero by default.
Go ahead and compile that.
And now if we go ahead and change the speed and then change the aim pitch.
You can see we can aim up and we can aim down, which is exactly what we want.
Now, the problem here is it's not being set in our game just yet.
If we go up and down, none of that is coming from information from our control rotation and our aiming.
So we need to go back to our event graph and get some of that information in here.
Now, I'm just going to space things out a little bit here because this is getting rather long.
And what I want to do is off this valid pin is I want to put a sequence note.
Just gonna let me spread things out a little bit down the in the vertical direction as well.
So the sequence node, first of all, is gonna go off to setting the speed and angle over here.
Then I think we can move this stuff to do with cast into the shooter character.
I think we can bring this down further vertically, looking up at that sequence pin and the object pin
to try get porn owner node.
Then we can add another pin into the sequence.
And this time I want to get two pieces of information from our pawn owner.
The first one is going to be our control rotation.
So let's do a get control rotation.
But this isn't going to be enough because our control rotation, if we split the pin, you can see we've
got a pitch in here and we could try setting that pitch.
Let's let's give that a go.
So if I do a set pitch and connect up the execution node to the execution node from our sequence, adding
in a bit of a redirect to that.
What's gonna happen if we compile save hit play and then aim up?
Works fine.
Aim down does not turn around.
Then things start to look even more weird.
Now what's going on there is that this control rotation is entirely global and so it doesn't take into
account the direction that our player is already facing.
So to take that into account, we need to go to the pawn again and get the actor rotation.
And then what we want to find is the rotation between the actor's rotation to the control rotation.
And the way we do this is just going to disconnect the aim pitch.
Break that link and right.
Click and recombine the struck pins is.
I want to do a delta between those two so I can take off of the control rotation and look for Delta.
And Delta is basically a fancy way of saying subtraction between rotators.
So what we want to do is take our control rotation and subtract the base rotation, which is going to
be our active rotation.
So that's B..
So it's going to be A minus B.
You hover over.
That's what the Delta rotates does.
And we basically want to be saying, yes, I want the control rotation, but take away all the information
about our active rotation so I can just know whether we're aiming up and down relative to the direction
that our character's facing.
And then if I split out the return value, Payden from that.
And use the pitch from there.
We're going to see that everything works as expected.
When I look up my name up, when I look down, I'm aiming down.
And doesn't matter which way I'm facing in the world, that's always going to be the case.
So that's almost it for our AIM rotation.
The only problem is that at the moment our A.I. is incapable of aiming like this.
So if I go and put a shooter character up on the stairs over here and then we go over to try and hound
him down, try and get him to come over to us.
Here he comes.
You'll see that he's just shooting off into the wall.
He's not trying to aim at all, which is a bit sad.
So what's going on there?
If we go through our A.I. and our behavior tree, you can see that we're setting a default focus to
a location.
And by default, if you set focus to a location, then unreal.
Not going to update your control rotation in the same way.
It's not going to do the pitch.
So that's a bit sad.
Okay, so what we need to do is go to the blackboard and change this player location to just be a reference
to the player instead.
Then we need to change this vector over to be an object.
So now we've got as a black board key for the player, which is an object.
We can change the base class to be actor if we want to.
Although it's not particularly important.
And then what that means is over in the behavior tree, we can switch things up so that we are moving
to instead of moving to our play location, we're moving to the player actor.
We can set the focus to be the player actor and update the player location if scene now needs to be
pointing to a player actor as well.
Now, this isn't going to work just yet because our update player location, if seen, is currently
trying to set a location into this key.
So a little mini challenge for you, see if you can update it.
So instead of setting the location in that behaviour tree service, we're setting the actual actor pause
video.
Have a go.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So we're going to go over in a visual studio code and look for our service, particularly it's the B.T.
service underscore player location if seen.
And we're going to change this to sort of set value as vector.
It's going to be set value as object.
Simple as that.
We had choices of types in the blackboard.
And that's what we're going to tell it here.
Now, obviously is going to complain that what we're trying to say is a vector rather than an object.
So we're going to just remove the get actor location and pass in the player pawn instead.
Clearing the value is the same as it was before.
So we can just go back into the ED hit compile and see if this new setup is working with aiming for
the A.I..
Kate, let's dive in here, play.
Go and find our A.I. up on the stairs.
Get them to try and come and look down as.
Come on, I got one more thing that I've forgotten from the behavior tree to update is there can see
player at the moment is has gone and reset the blackboard key to self actor.
We want to that to be player basically is the player set.
Let's go and make that change because at the moment the A.I. wasn't coming to chase.
Now it's chasing us.
And in fact, if you'd jumped even just about see that the aim rotation of this guy is changing, let's
go over to the stairs and see whether he can shoot down from the stairs at us.
Excellent.
He's changed his rotation and indeed, he is shooting right at us.
Both of them are when I.
So I'm losing health and will soon die.
Hey, that's it for this lecture.
We have added in an AIM offset and we have updated our A.I. so that it can use that to aim as well.
The next lecture, you're gonna be doing something about this funny running while in the air.
I will see that.